---
layout: post
title: Metis First Two Weeks Impression
---

I recently enrolled in Metis, a 12-week data science bootcamp in San Francisco, to help me change careers from basic research/academia. For those that are unfamiliar with this education model, a bootcamp essentially is an short, intense program to help you obtain the skills and connections to start a new career, typically in the tech sector. And intense sure is the right word for it! Although I feel like I was probably more prepared than most since I did a PhD in a quantitative, physical science coding in Python on real projects, the speed that the material moves was certainly fast. Even near the beginning when we were covering Python packages I had more or less experience working in, hearing someone explain various features of the packages was extremely helpful to fill in the gaps since I was self-taught. (I once used a nested for loop to do matrix multiplication instead of, you know, np.dot().) Once the first couple days had passed, though, we were quickly in new territory. 

Despite the fast pace of the material, the work so far has been really enjoyable and challenging. After working on an initial project looking at MTA turnstile data in a group, I'm currently working on a web scraping/regression project gathering data from a beer review website (more on that later). I had never used packages like BeautifulSoup, which allows parsing of HTML documents, but I was quickly able to surreptitiously download 35,000 beer reviews over the weekend to test regression machine learning algorithms on. I felt like such a hacker!
